{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 Though there are many different races of plants and animals in the land of Elantar, but this section focuses on the sentient beings. Those that can are naturally self-aware, and thus playable races, are listed above with further information regarding each. Note that the physical traits listed are general averages. There could be a human taller than an algid, but it's less likely, for instance. These are not meant to be solid guidelines, but general ideas of the population as a whole. Variances in eye and hair color, height, weight, and lifespan are fairly common. Some magical races that are not playable include Dragons, Faeries, and Centaurs.\par
\par
\par
Human\par
Average appearances:\par
Height: 5' to 6'\par
Weight: 100 to 300 lbs\par
Lifespan: 70 years\par
Skin colors: Shades of Beige, and Brown\par
Eye colors: Green, Blue, Brown\par
Hair colors: Black, Brown, Blonde, Red\par
Base stats: 13, 13, 12, 14, 16, 14, 14, 15, 16\par
Available final classes: Monk Myrmidon Cavalier, Mercenary, Hunter, Assassin, Sage, Minstrel, Wizard, Sorcerer, Chemist, Antimage, Paladin, Nightstalker, Priest, Necromancer, Druid, Shaman\par
Racial skills: Bravery, Durability\par
Physical\par
\par
Society\par
\par
Religion\par
\par
\par
Algid\par
Average appearances:\par
Height: 5'5" to 6'10"\par
Weight: 90 to 200 lbs\par
Lifespan: 85 years\par
Skin colors: White, Blue\par
Eye colors: White, Blue, Purple, Black\par
Hair colors: White, Blue, Black\par
Base stats: 17, 15, 15, 17, 14, 17, 16, 16, 13\par
Available final classes: Myrmidon, Monk, Mercenary, Hunter, Assassin, Sorcerer, Nightstalker, Priest, Necromancer\par
Racial skills: Frozen Blood, Icebound\par
\par
Physical\par
\tab Algid skin tone ranges from nearly transparent white to dusky blue. Algid eye color typically shares a similar range as their skin tones, including, white, silver, grey, blue, violet, and black, cases of either gold or green eyes have been noted but are treated as a rarity. The Algid body type is typically lean, while not developing muscle volume to the degrees of their counter parts the Algid seem to make better use of the tissues they do develop.\par
\par
Society\par
\tab The Algid people are typically restricted in habitat to cooler climates excelling in weather cold enough to kill the other races, in contrast however they do suffer physical weakness in the warmer seasons and are prone to death when exposed to the intense heat of desert conditions. The Algid nation consists of multiple houses bowing down to an emperor called a \ldblquote Prime\rdblquote  a seat which while technically hereditary may be challenged by any worthy citizen, upon winning such a contest the champion is appointed head of the ruling house. Commonly refered to as brutal and uncivilized Algid society is based upon strict rules and codes prioritizing respect and honor as ultimate achievements. The typical crimes that plague other societies, theft, vandalism, and rape are virtually unheard of withing the Algid culture, it is how ever a common sight to see sanctioned battles on side streets which often leave someone dead. In keeping with this desire for strength and honor we seldom see elderly or deformed Algid citizens as their fellows are likely to exploit any weakness presented. Due to this rather brutal form of retirement we see very few natural deaths in the Algid people preventing an accurate lifespan from being calculated.\par
\par
Religion\par
\tab In terms of religion the Algid have a very laid back approach given the living condition of their monstrous gods. With four members in their pantheon the Algid principally worship only on specified holidays or when the nearest god look at them in terms of food.\line\pard\sb100\sa100\par
\pard\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Quolin\par
Average appearances:\par
Height: 5' to 6'\par
Weight: 80 to 200 lbs\par
Lifespan: 150 years\par
Skin colors: Shades of Blue, and White\par
Eye colors: Brown, Black, Blue, Green\par
Hair colors: Blonde, White, Blue\par
Base stats: 14, 19, 15, 15, 12, 15, 14, 12, 14\par
Available final classes: Myrmidon, Hunter, Monk, Cavalier, Mercenary, Sage, Wizard, Sorcerer, Paladin, Priest, Druid\par
Racial skills: Thalassic Aura, Hydrobiology\par
Physical\par
Society\par
Religion\par
The Quolin are an amphibious race of great intelligence, typically Quolin hair colors run toward the pale end of the spectrum including blonds, whites, greys, and blues, in rare cases browns have been seen. Quolin eye colors typically run a more human spectrum including brown, black, blue, green, as well as silver and gold. Due to their amphibious nature the Quolin do have several odd physical traits, the first and most notable of which being a set of gill slits along each side of their throat, typically lain flat when exposed to air the gills look like a series of fine arches running down from the back of the head almost to the windpipe. Aside from their gills and bluish skin tone Quolin are remarkably human like, appearing for the most part as lean, tall humans with long pointed ears. The Quolin believe the world is a great cycle and that in time all things will return to their correct state, and this is reflected in their gods, while Levatin is a physically manifest god similar to the Algid's Koralin is incaporial in the manner of the humans. It is their belief that Levatin seeks to devour Koralin for as the moon grows larger the water rises towards it and as it shrinks the waves return to the depths. Quolin priests are similarly divided the Priests of Levatin remaining principally in the depths while the priests of Koralin have temples on or near the shore line.\line\pard\sb100\sa100\line\par
\pard\par
\par
dextrocardia\par
\par
Daurin\par
Average appearances:\par
Height: 5'6" to 6'6"\par
Weight: 100 to 250 lbs\par
Lifespan: 250 years\par
Skin colors: Shades of Beige and Brown\par
Eye colors: Emerald, Sapphire, Amethyst, Gold\par
Hair colors: Black, Red, Blonde\par
Base stats:16, 15, 14, 18, 18, 17, 19, 19, 18\par
Available final classes: Myrmidon, Cavalier, Mercenary, Hunter, Assassin, Chemist, Minstrel, Antimage, Priest, Necromancer, Druid, Shaman\par
Racial skills: Resilience, Disappear\par
Physical\par
\tab Daurin are slightly taller than the average, standing over the other mid-height sentients, but not usually as tall as the large races. Though they tend to be on the larger, more muscled size due to their labor-intensive lifestyle, their artisans and assassins have lithe bodies. Their skin tones are similar to human's, but due to living in a desert, it tends to be on the darker side, sometimes being a dark brown that is almost a coal black. The skin color varies also on region. The color of their hair tends towards earthen tones of blacks, browns, and reds, with blondes being of a rarity. Most remarkable about Daurin are their eyes, which seem glow in the light, enhancing the already \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Dwarf\par
Average appearances:\par
Height: 4' to 5'\par
Weight: 100 to 300 lbs\par
Lifespan: 100 years\par
Skin colors: Shades of Beige, and Brown\par
Eye colors: Green, Black, Brown\par
Hair colors: Blonde, Red, Black, White\par
Base stats: 19, 19, 18, 13, 18, 13, 16, 16, 18\par
Available final classes: Mercenary, Hunter, Assassin, Sage, Chemist, Wizard, Sorcerer, Minstrel, Antimage, Priest, Necromancer, Druid, Shaman\par
Racial skills: Amiability, Drunken Fighting\par
While shorter in stature than humans the Dwarves make up their vertical deficiency with strength and stamina. Though possessing greater physical abilities than humans, Dwarves prefer to use their minds placing them as the foremost scientific race. In terms of complexion, they typically run along the same line as humans, from a reasonably fair peach tone to a deep brown, hair and eye colors do tend to be a bit more narrowly focused on browns and auburns rather than blondes or blacks. In terms of eye color, Dwarves only seem to naturally come by two, brown and black, while green eyes can be seen on rare occasion. The Dwarves believe in a pantheon of gods but typically only observe them during high holidays or cataclysmic events, the latter typically being more frequent. "From Kadesh and the great oblivion sprang Hiel and where she walked the world was illuminated... and from Hiel came the four builders who set in place the arches beneath the mountains that our kind could work in her name" Dwarven mythology is all about the bringing of science to a world plagued by superstition and darkness and to them it is the will of their gods to pretty much ignore them and get to work advancing the world. \par
\par
\par
\par
Ogre\par
Average appearances:\par
Height: 6'6" to 8'6"\par
Weight: 200 to 500 lbs\par
Lifespan: 60 years\par
Skin colors: Shades of Green, and Black\par
Eye colors: Red, Green, Blue, White, Black, Yellow\par
Hair colors: Green, Black, White\par
Base stats: 19, 16, 14, 12, 19, 13, 13, 13, 14\par
Available final classes: Mercenary, Hunter, Assassin, Wizard, Sorcerer, Nightstalker, Priest, Necromancer, Druid, Shaman\par
Racial skills: Warcry, Fervor\par
Ogres are by far the most massive of races towering over even the Vithe by more than a foot. A typical ogre has a greenish grey skin tone which tends on a whole to lean towards dusky color. Their hair follows suit, ranging from an ash color to a green tinted black, which tends to fade into a faint mossy grey color as they age. Ogre eyes are an odd set of colors spanning the full gambit even further than those of the humans, reds, greens, blues, white, black, grey, even straying into purples and yellows. Ogre physiology is overall a mixture of enormous muscles and fat, and as such, the average ogre weighs nearly twice that of a human. While not originally violent by nature, years of ostracizing and defensive warfare has left the Ogres fiercely territorial and they will go to virtually any length to remove a perceived threat from any area which they feel they have claim to. The ogre's are deeply spiritual and worship the spirits inherent in all things with different classes and types of spirits to determine the being's power. These spirits vary from simple spirits found in stones and grass which lack the power to affect the living world, the next level of spirits are large plants and other inanimate objects which grow more powerful over time but still typically remain separate from the mortal world, the third grade of spirits are animals and weaker humans while not necessarily more powerful than the second class they do tend to interact more with the world of the living, the fourth class of spirits are elemental spirits which never have possessed a physical form are not beholden to the laws which govern the mortal world. The fifth class of spirit is a spirit which has shed its mortal form and transitioned into the ability to take a new physical form. The priestly hierarchy is fairly flexible with a few fairly powerful elders loosely governing the wide ranging priests. \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Vithe\par
Average appearances:\par
Height: 5'6" to 7'6"\par
Weight: 100 to 300 lbs\par
Lifespan: 80 years\par
Skin colors: Shades of Brown\par
Eye colors: Black, Red\par
Hair colors: Black, Blonde \par
Base stats: 19, 15, 15, 17, 14, 17, 16, 16, 13\par
Available final classes: Mercenary, Hunter, Priest, Necromancer, Druid, Shaman\par
Racial skills: Return, Regeneration\par
Vithe skin tones are typically earthy in nature, ranging from a deep brown to a pale beige, but favoring the darker shades, partly due to their outdoors lifestyle. Their hair colors also run in similar style from black to a straw colored blond, it is only in incredibly rare circumstances that a Vithe can be seen with another hair or skin tone, these rarities typically being of a lighter variety. Vithe lack iris pigmentation and as such all members of the species have either black or red eyes. The Vithe body is an oddity among the races, their ability to heal is unequaled and as such, are very durable fighters. Their bodies are also covered in hundreds of bony spines ranging from 1\rdblquote  to more than a foot. These spines, much like the tusks of a hippo, never stop growing, all though their growth does slow significantly after a certain length, but regular maintenance is necessary.\line\pard\sb100\sa100 Vithe society doesn't stand as such, the entire Vithe nation is run by a council of elders composed of the heads of the seven largest Vithe tribes. The Vithe worship their ancestors and perform shamanic rituals, while not as consuming as the human religion the Vithe religion is practiced very regularly and their ancestors consulted when ever a major event is to take place, such as war, or determining the direction in which a tribe would travel during the season. The religion lacks the hierarchy of most, each family group having its own shaman and each shaman choosing his own apprentices. The religion is typically passed as oral traditions, and while most shamans practice very similar rituals it is rare to see two not trained by the same elder practicing the exact same ritual.\par
\pard\par
}
 